>

	
		<field name="slideshow_id">36626851</field>
		<field name="slide_text">Andrew Clegg
33 High Road, Halton, Lancaster, LA2 6LX
Mob 07900 265 216 Landline 01524 811803 andrew_clegg@btinternet.com
Personal Statement
Experienced highly motivated communicator, which enables me to deliver on all tasks to the highest standard.
Duringmy time as a director of a company I was ableshow myself to be self-motivated, organised and capable
of working under pressure. I have a clear,logical mind with a practical approach to problem solvingand a drive
to see things through to completion. I enjoy working on my own initiativeor in a team. I enjoy learningand I
am keen to develop my personal and technical skills. In short,I am reliable,trustworthy, hardworkingand
eager to learn. Now actively seeking new challengingrole.
Employment
Everest Home Improvements. Current.
B2C Sales of Home Improvement Products.
Arranging finance contracts.
Setting Appointments with clients by Canvassing.
Goodspark Ltd t/a A.C.Refinish Oct 1986 – April 2013
Sales/ General
Director
The Company distributed paintand allied products to car body shops,commercial
body shops and industrial sector contractors.PPEguidanceand supply of PPE
equipment.
Responsiblefor Sales. B2B, Face to face, Telephone and Internet.
GivingProfessional adviceon all aspects of coatings.
Colour matchingto exacting standards.
Advisingcustomers to develop their own businesses with the resources available to
them.
Reporting KPIs to relevant bodies.
Stock control.
Fulfilling financial and contractual targets to £2Million per annum.
Sourcingall ITneeds of the company.
On-going ITdevelopment for the company.
Advising customers on business development and expansion.
Sourcingproducts and services.
Induction and on-going staff development and training.
Motivatingstaff to achievetargets.
Responsiblefor all HSEin company.
Risk Assessments for company and advisor to customers.
Updating Company legislation.
Delivered new product launches to a level exceeding targets.
Successful roll outof compliantcoatings by company.
Developed training modules for customers and their staff.
Organised customer visits to coatings manufacturers in UK, Europe and USA.
Networking with Local, National and International Businesses,including3M,PPG,
AKZO NOBEL, SHERWIN WILLIAMS.
Set up and became a director of a National BuyingGroup company to assistfactors
to get more assistancefrommanufacturers and suppliers.
Assisted in the rollingoutof the PPG / Pittsburgh University Jobber Programme to
PPG European Sales Employees.
Member of fact findinggroup for PPG on Factor requirements of PPG Industries.
Designed Application of Coatings courses for customer’s specific needs.
Successful in gaining Fleetspecificationsof Colour,Products and Application.
Education.
Skerton Boys County Secondary School,
Lancaster College of Further Education.
A-Level
Biology
Chemistry
Physics
GCE O Levels
9 Including English and Maths
CSE
8 Including English and Maths
Lancaster University –Chorley Annex
Teachers Certificate
B Ed Biology
Further Training
Pittsburgh University, Pittsburgh, USA. The Joseph M Katz Graduate School of Business
Jobber Management Program.
Pittsburgh University, Paris, France. The Joseph M Katz Graduate School of Business
JUMP Distributor Management Programme.
Plus many other short courses throughout Europe.
Additional attributes
Ex-Chairman Round Table
Driving – Full licence no endorsements
References Availableon request.
</field>
	