>

	
		<field name="slideshow_id">36626848</field>
		<field name="slide_text">www.phalera.com/histoblocks
HISTOBLOCKS, the specialised stock footage database for royalty free historical
filmclips, films, animations, photos and illustrations.
WHAT WE OFFER
1. Content
HISTOBLOCKS provides visual content of historically accurate reconstructions that
can be used for a variety of educational purposes like additional footage for your
• documentary,
• news item
• museum exhibition,
• interactive schoolbook
• historical magazine
2. service
Besides content we also provide extra services:
Advise: which clips might fit your needs? We offer any advise to help you create
the best product possible.
Production: we can turn your selected clips into a complete product. Our services
range from historical research, script writing, editing, visual effects,
music, sound, voice over, titles, and animations.
QUALITY
What makes us unique is the offering of visual content from times in which film and
photography did not yet exist.
We therefor use reconstructions, often provided by Living History groups. These
groups of history enthusiasts spend much time doing research about life, clothing,
equipment, cooking, warfare etc. etc. of their favourite period in history.
In addition we apply a strict quality check to make sure that everything we offer is
historically accurate.
The peope behind HISTOBLOCKS are well rounded in the fields of history,
archaeology and education.
FOR WHOM?
Our regular customers are:
• museums
• educational publishers
• film- and documentary makers
• schools
• TV channels
HOW TO ORDER
• You can search for clips using the search machine.
• Or you can contact us directly and specify your wishes. We will then offer you a
selection of clips that we feel might fit your needs.
Once the clips have been placed in the basket, we will contact you to inform you about
the possible licences and prices.
KEEP INFORMED
Our database is constantly growing. If you can’t find the content you need today, we
might be able to provide it in the near future. Just let us know what items you wish to
see. We value your feedback.
</field>
	