>

	
		<field name="slideshow_id">36626846</field>
		<field name="slide_text">Granite Remnants
Granite Remnants are the ideal choice for smaller projects.
We are proud to be one of the largest suppliers of Granite Remnants in Detroit. Remnants are
left over pieces of granite, marble or quartz slabs that you can use for various projects such as:
Vanity Tops
Fireplace Surrounds
Table Tops
Shampoo Shelves
Thresholds
Coffee Tables
Small Countertops
We are Detroit's premier marble and Granite Company, offering the best selection at the most
affordable prices. For the past 15 years, we have been installing granite for residential and
commercial uses. We welcome you to visit us today and see the selection we have in stock.
Marble and Granite Works, Inc.
Great Value At An Affordable Price
Granite remnants are typically affordable, and offer the best value for your dollar. If you are
thinking of doing natural stone for smaller projects around your home, a remnant could save
you big bucks!
Granite Specials
Marble &amp; Granite Works periodically offers granite specials in the Detroit area. We highly
recommend you to visit our site and see what type of specials we may be running on a
particular month.
If we do happen to run any monthly specials, please keep in mind that our stock can be of
limited quantity and cannot guarantee we will have them available.
Silestone
We are an authorized dealer for Silestone Products in the Detroit metro area. Silestone® is
another alternative to Granite and Marble products that consists of very durable material.
We provide expert fabrication and installation for both residential and commercial projects in
the Detroit metro area including:
Custom Designs
Kitchen Countertops (Marble and Granite)
Bath Vanities and Countertops (Marble and Granite)
Floors
Fireplaces
Our Granite Selection
We take pride in offering our customers only 'HIGH QUALITY' marble and granite material - all
for an affordable price. Our team hand picks and imports our granite from overseas. For times
we need to go through a domestic supplier or vendor, we have taken the time to carefully
select and develop strong relationships that will strive for only quality stones &amp; materials.
Marble &amp; Granite Works, Inc. has over 15 years of experience
providing builders, homeowners, designers and architects with
the very best granite and marble on the market.
Understanding builders' time schedules and budgets, we offer
a high quality product at a fast and efficient turn-around time.
Whether you are upgrading your home for a more luxurious
look with granite countertops or renovating your commercial
space with marble or granite tiles, we will be happy to take on your custom project and install
the best natural stone materials for you.
For more information please visit our website
http://www.michiganmarblegranite.com
</field>
	