>

	
		<field name="slideshow_id">36626843</field>
		<field name="slide_text">Self-assessment guidance for
post-16 providers
Guidance
Welsh Government circular no: 012/2014
Date of issue: June 2014
Replaces circular no: 004/2013
Audience 	 Further education institutions (FEIs); work-based learning (WBL)
providers; local authorities funded to deliver community learning;
higher education institutions providing further education funded by
the Department for Education and Skills (DfES); Welsh for Adults
Language Centres; HM Prisons delivering offender learning; and
other providers if specified in their funding agreement.
Overview 	 This guidance sets out the requirements for providers funded by
DfES to submit an annual self-assessment report (SAR) and quality
development plan (QDP).
Action	 None – for information only.
required	
Further	 Enquiries about this document should be directed to:
information	 Gayle Powell
	 Further Education and Apprenticeships Division
	 Department for Education and Skills
	 Welsh Government
	 Tyˆ’r Afon
	 Bedwas Road
	Bedwas
	Caerphilly
	 CF83 8WT
	Tel: 01443 663717
	e-mail: post16quality@wales.gsi.gov.uk
Additional 	 This document can be accessed from the Welsh Government’s
copies 	 website at
www.wales.gov.uk/topics/educationandskills/learningproviders/
raisingqualityandstandards/landm/assessment/?lang=en
Self-assessment guidance for post-16
providers
Digital ISBN 978 1 4734 1551 5
© Crown copyright 2014
WG22199
Contents
Introduction 2
Overview of self-assessment requirements 4
Features of effective self-assessment 5
Scope and content of provider self-assessment 6
Specific areas of focus for 2014/15 submissions 7
Quality development plans 9
Timing and arrangements for submissions 11
2
Introduction
1 This guidance sets out the requirements for providers funded by the Department
for Education and Skills (DfES) to submit an annual self-assessment report
(SAR) and quality development plan (QDP). It applies to:
further education institutions (FEIs);
work-based learning (WBL) providers;
local authorities funded to deliver community learning;
higher education institutions providing further education funded by DfES;
Welsh for Adults Language Centres;
HM Prisons delivering offender learning; and
other providers if specified in their funding agreement.
2 The guidance which builds on previous versions, will be live from 1 August 2014,
from which date all providers will be expected to incorporate the new
requirements into their self-assessment.
3 In consultation with DfES, Estyn (Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of Education and
Training in Wales) has produced toolkits that will help providers in undertaking
self-assessment within the shared context of the Quality and Effectiveness
Framework and the Common Inspection Framework. The toolkits complement
this guidance by providing more detailed advice on how providers should
evaluate themselves against the Common Inspection Framework.
Requirements for WBL providers
4 WBL consortia should submit a single SAR covering their membership. The SAR
should reflect the full range of delivery by geographical area and sector, but must
evaluate the overall effectiveness of leadership and management for the
consortium as a whole. Providers will be aware that, to reflect the shape of the
new provider network, Estyn inspects WBL contracts held by FEIs separately.
We are therefore requesting a separate WBL SAR from FE institutions which
have direct contracts to deliver WBL.
5 Providers are wholly responsible for the performance of their contract, therefore
they have responsibility for the self-assessment process with information being
fed through from any sub-contractors. The self-assessment report should
clearly state if a provider sub-contracts any element of the provision and detail
with whom they sub-contract and what elements of provision (including volumes)
is sub-contracted. This should reflect the definitions of sub-contracting contained
within the WBL Programme Specification.
6 The SAR should outline the processes for quality assuring these sub-contracted
elements and how this information is fed into the overall self-assessment process.
The performance of sub-contracted elements should be clearly reported and
analysed within the SAR and the process for remedial or developmental action
planning between the parties should be clear.
3
7 DfES funds a number of cross-border providers which also hold contracts with the
Skills Funding Agency in England. Those providers which have provision in
England and Wales may be subject to joint inspections by Estyn and Ofsted (the
Office for Standards in Education, Children’s Services and Skills).
8 Whilst we do not expect providers which deliver the majority of their provision in
England to undertake self-assessment specifically to meet the requirements of
DfES, the SAR must include specific references to the provision in Wales,
supported by relevant statistics and other evidence. Either a QDP relating to the
Welsh provision, or a guide to which elements of the national QDP are relevant to
the Welsh provision, should be included.
Requirements for ACL providers
9 As Estyn inspects Adult Community Learning (ACL) on a geographical
partnership basis, ACL partnerships are expected to prepare their SAR on this
basis, reflecting the range of provision delivered by all of the partners in the
locality. DfES does not require separate ACL SARs for individual partners.
Delivering Community Learning for Wales sets out the Welsh Government’s
strategic aims for Adult Community Learning and defines the key actions for the
Welsh Government and providers. Partnerships should evaluate their response to
these in their self-assessments.
4
Overview of self-assessment requirements
10 The Quality and Effectiveness Framework (QEF) focuses on providers’
responsibility for managing and improving the quality of their own delivery, with
close involvement of their learners in the process.
Estyn Common Inspection Framework
11 For 2014/15, providers should carry out their self-assessments based on the
Common Inspection Framework:
Overall judgement on the provider’s current performance
Overall judgement on the provider’s prospects for improvement
Key Question 1 - How good are outcomes?
1.1 Standards
1.2 Wellbeing
Key Question 2: How good is provision?
2.1 Learning experiences
2.2 Teaching and training
2.3 Care, support and guidance
2.4 Learning environment
Key question 3 - How good are leadership and management?
3.1 Leadership
3.2 Improving quality
3.3 Partnership working
3.4 Resource management
5
Features of effective self-assessment
12 Self-assessment needs to be seen by providers as a tool for evaluating,
monitoring and managing the quality of their provision, not as a requirement
imposed by external inspectors or funding bodies. It should be a continuous
process, not an annual ‘snapshot’.
13 Effective self-assessment:
focuses primarily on learners, their experiences and achievements, as the
basis on which judgements are made;
honestly identifies shortcomings and areas for development, as well as
strengths;
demonstrates a consistent approach across all areas, showing that where
different teams have carried out the self-assessment, their findings have been
drawn together and validated by senior management;
involves staff, managers and governors from across the organisation;
takes account of the views of learners, employers and other stakeholders,
including partner organisations and sub-contractors where applicable;
tracks progress from year to year in consolidating strengths and remedying
weaknesses;
draws together and evaluates evidence from a range of reliable sources and
activities; and
is fully integrated with the provider’s planning cycle, so that objectives, targets
and actions for each year reflect the outcomes of self-assessment.
6
Scope and content of provider self-assessment
14 The self-assessment report must:
cover the previous year (funding, academic or financial);
include a brief introduction, setting out relevant background information, a
summary of the process for undertaking self-assessment and a summary
including significant strengths and weaknesses identified;
include the specific areas of focus detailed in paragraphs 15-21 below;
be cross-referenced to an appropriate range of sources of evidence
supporting each judgement;
evaluate statistical data on learner outcomes;
be evaluative rather than descriptive, clearly identifying both strengths and
weaknesses (guidance on using evaluative statements in self-assessment can
be found on our website);
be open and honest in recognising where improvement is needed;
identify actions which have already been undertaken, or are underway, to
address weaknesses;
refer to external inspections, assessments and reviews and show progress
that has been made in addressing their recommendations.
7
Specific areas of focus for 2014/15 submissions
Estyn Annual Report 2012/13
15 The Chief Inspector’s Annual Report for 2012/13 was published in January 2014.
It is the second Annual Report since the introduction of the new Common
Inspection Framework. The key issues raised were:
Teachers do not always challenge learners to develop higher level standards
of practical competence;
too few tutors/assessors/teachers use individual learning plans to plan
learning, set realistic goals and monitor progress;
providers do not always plan a systematic approach to developing literacy and
numeracy across the curriculum.
Overall self-assessment is not robust enough to identify actions to address
shortcomings;
Many providers do not analyse learners’ Welsh language needs well enough
and not all providers encourage learners to undertake training and
assessment in Welsh; and
Local Market Intelligence (LMI) is not always used effectively to match
programmes to employment opportunities and industry needs.
16 All providers should be evaluating how well they address these issues in their
self-assessment report.
Essential skills
17 All providers should ensure that their SAR includes an evaluation of strategies for
meeting learners’ literacy and numeracy needs. In some cases, providers will not
be delivering literacy and numeracy skills themselves, but should focus on
evaluating the effectiveness of their arrangements for initial assessment and
referral. This should include a quantified summary of the outcomes of initial
assessments and corrective action taken where evidence suggests there are
quality issues regarding essential skills provision or a provider’s essential skills
learner outcomes are not satisfactory.
18 Providers should refer to section 1.1.4 of Estyn’s Common Inspection Framework.
Welsh-medium learning
19 The Welsh-medium Education Strategy was published in April 2010 with an
accompanying implementation programme. All providers are required to show
how they contribute to the post-16 targets of the Strategy and how they are
addressing the key objectives for the post-16 sector. The target for increasing
Welsh-medium and bilingual learning activities for 16-19 year old learners in
Schools and FE learning by 2015 is 18% and 7% respectively.
8
20 Work-based learning providers are also required to give due consideration to
increasing their Welsh-medium and bilingual provision and the sector target for
Welsh-medium and bilingual learning activities in 2015 is 2.5%.
21 Providers should refer to section 1.1.5 and 2.1.3 of Estyn’s Common Inspection
Framework and take note of the recommendations in Estyn’s Annual Report for
2012/13 in respect of improving and increasing the delivery of Welsh-medium and
Welsh-language learning.
9
Quality development plans
22 Providers should take action to address all of the weaknesses identified in the
self-assessment. The QDP should identify priorities for improvement and give a
clear indication of how the provider intends to improve quality and raise standards
year-on-year.
23 The QDP can be presented as a summary document with cross-references to
more detailed action plans, but it must clearly show how the most significant
issues identified via self-assessment will be addressed. In terms of prioritisation, if
resource implications prevent all of the shortcomings from being addressed, the
QDP should show how resources have been prioritised to deal with the most
important issues.
24 The QDP should include a brief introduction, setting out:
a summary of the process for developing the plan, including involvement of
staff, managers and governors;
clear identification of the priorities to be addressed over the next year; and
a summary of how progress and outcomes will be monitored and reported to
managers, governors and stakeholders.
Features of effective quality development plans
25 Quality development plans must:
be cross-referenced to strengths and weaknesses in the SAR;
indicate priorities for action;
identify specific actions to be taken to address weaknesses and build on
strengths;
include measurable targets and performance indicators wherever possible;
identify timescales for completion and, where actions are long-term, interim
review dates;
identify resources required to undertake actions;
identify where external expertise is needed to undertake actions;
identify staff responsible for undertaking each action;
identify a manager (or managers) who will take responsibility for reviewing
progress against the QDP and measuring the resulting improvements; and
include cross-references to Estyn inspection reports, strategic/business/
service delivery plans and more detailed action plans for specific departments
or areas of activity.
26 Effective self-assessment should be an integral part of all providers’ quality
systems including monitoring progress towards the QDP. Although there is no
longer a requirement for providers to routinely submit quarterly QDP updates to
DfES, we expect providers to continue to regularly monitor progress in
implementing the QDP. We may ask to see these updates to ensure that we
have current and relevant information on providers’ progress. DfES also expect
10
providers to ensure that actions being taken in response to Estyn inspections are
integrated into their QDP cycles.
11
Timing and arrangements for submissions
27 DfES recognises the importance of each provider developing its own quality and
planning systems which reflect its size, organisational structure and particular
needs. The date should reflect your provider’s own quality cycle and should take
account of factors including:
scheduled meetings, including governing body, senior management team and
any other groups which will consider and sign off the SAR;
the availability of performance data and benchmarks which will feed into the
SAR;
the availability of other evidence such as course reviews, learner and
employer surveys; and
staff time to complete and write up the self-assessment, including annual
leave arrangements.
28 Any changes to submission dates will only be considered in exceptional
circumstances, and will need to be agreed by DfES, via the relevant central
mailbox: askwbl@wales.gsi.gov.uk for all WBL providers or
post16quality@wales.gsi.gov.uk for all other providers.
29 Providers are requested to submit their self-assessment report and quality
development plan via e-mail to askwbl@wales.gsi.gov.uk for all WBL providers or
post16quality@wales.gsi.gov.uk for all other providers.
</field>
	