>

	
		<field name="slideshow_id">36626842</field>
		<field name="slide_text">Designing a Career in
Biomedical Engineering
Robot-assisted surgery. Photo courtesy The Acrobot
Company, Ltd. (www.acrobot.co.uk)
®
Engineering in Medicine &amp; Biology
Copyright © 2003 IEEE. All Rights Reserved.
Copyright and Reprint Permissions: Reprinting of this infor-
mation is permitted with credit to the source. Libraries are
permitted to photocopy beyond the limit of U.S. copyright law
for private use of patrons those articles in this volume that carry
a code at the bottom of the first page, provided the per-copy fee
indicated in the code is paid through Copyright Clearance
Center, 222 Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923.
For other reprint or republications permission, write to IEEE
Intellectual Property Rights Manager, IEEE Operations Center,
445 Hoes Lane, Piscataway, New Jersey USA 08854.
Is biomedical engineering right for you?
What kind of career do you imagine for yourself? Doctor? Lawyer?
Scientist? Engineer? Teacher? CEO? Manager? Salesperson?
A university degree in biomedical engineering will prepare you for
all of these professions and more. Biomedical engineers use their expert-
ise in biology, medicine, physics, mathematics, engineering science and
communication to make the world a healthier place. The challenges cre-
ated by the diversity and complexity of living systems require creative,
knowledgeable, and imaginative people working in teams of physicians,
scientists, engineers, and even business folk to monitor, restore and
enhance normal body function. The biomedical engineer is ideally
trained to work at the intersection of science, medicine and mathematics
to solve biological and medical problems.
What do biomedical engineers do?
Perhaps a simpler question to
answer is what don’t biomedical
engineers do? Biomedical engi-
neers work in industry, academic
institutions, hospitals and govern-
ment agencies. Biomedical engi-
neers may spend their days design-
ing electrical circuits and computer
software for medical instrumenta-
tion. These instruments may range
from large imaging systems such as
conventional x-ray, computerized
tomography (a sort of computer-
enhanced three-dimensional x-ray)
and magnetic resonance imaging, to
small implantable devices, such as
pacemakers, cochlear implants and
drug infusion pumps. Biomedical
engineers may use chemistry,
Bioengineers help translate human organs such
as the heart into thousands of mathematical
equations and millions of data points which
then run as computer simulations. The result is
a visual simulation that looks and behaves
much like the real heart it mimics. Image cour-
tesy Peter Hunter, Bioengineering Institute,
Auckland, New Zealand.
physics, mathematical models
and computer simulation to
develop new drug therapy.
Indeed a considerable number
of the advances in understand-
ing how the body functions
and how biological systems
work have been made by bio-
medical engineers. They may
use mathematical models and
statistics to study many of the
signals generated by organs
such as the brain, heart and
skeletal muscle. Some bio-
medical engineers build artifi-
cial organs, limbs, knees, hips,
heart valves and dental
implants to replace lost func-
tion; others are growing living tissues to replace failing organs. The
development of artificial body parts requires that biomedical engineers
use chemistry and physics to develop durable materials that are compati-
ble with a biological environment.
Biomedical engineers are also working to develop wireless technolo-
gy that will allow patients and doctors to communicate over long dis-
tances. Many biomedical engineers are involved in rehabilitation–design-
ing better walkers, exercise equipment, robots and therapeutic devices to
improve human performance. They are also solving problems at the cel-
lular and molecular level, developing nanotechnology and micro-
machines to repair damage inside the cell and alter gene function.
Biomedical engineers are also working to develop three-dimensional sim-
ulations that apply physical laws to the movements of tissues and fluids.
The resulting models can be invaluable in understanding how tissue
works, and how a prosthetic replacement, for example, might work under
the same conditions.
Some biomedical engineers solve biomedical problems as physicians,
business managers, patent attorneys, physical therapists, professors,
research scientists, teachers and technical writers. While these careers
Wearable computers can play a role in making health
care delivery possible for anyone, anyplace, anytime.
Photo courtesy Faustina Hwang.
often require additional training beyond the bachelor’s degree in biomed-
ical engineering, they are all appropriate careers for the person trained in
biomedical engineering. Sometimes electrical, mechanical, computer, or
other types of engineers may find themselves working on bioengineering-
related problems. After a few years, they may have so much biomedical-
related expertise that they can be considered biomedical engineers.
How do biomedical engineers differ from other engineers?
Biomedical engineers must integrate biology and medicine with engi-
neering to solve problems related to living systems. Thus, biomedical
engineers are required to have a solid foundation in a more traditional
engineering discipline, such as electrical, mechanical or chemical engi-
neering. Most undergraduate biomedical engineering programs require
students to take a core curriculum of traditional engineering courses.
However, biomedical engineers are expected to integrate their engineer-
ing skills with their understanding of the complexity of biological sys-
tems in order to improve medical practice. Thus, biomedical engineers
must be trained in the life sciences as well.
Courses in biology, chemistry, and physics will help prepare you to become a biomed-
ical engineer. Photo courtesy Faustina Hwang.
How much education does a biomedical engineer require?
A biomedical engineering degree typically requires a minimum of
four years of university education. Following this, the biomedical engi-
neer may assume an entry level engineering position in a medical device
or pharmaceutical company, a clinical engineering position in a hospital,
or even a sales position for a biomaterials or biotechnology company.
Many biomedical engineers will seek graduate level training in biomed-
ical engineering or a related engineering field. A Master’s or Doctoral
degree offers the biomedical engineer greater opportunities in research
and development, whether such work resides in an industrial, academic or
government setting. Some biomedical engineers choose to enhance their
education by pursuing a graduate degree in business, eventually to help
run a business or manage health care technology for a hospital.
Many biomedical engineers go on to medical school and dental
school following completion of their bachelor’s degree. A fraction of bio-
medical engineers even choose to enter law school, planning to work with
patent law and intellectual property related to biomedical inventions.
What better training than biomedical engineering for our future physi-
cians, dentists and patent lawyers?
Defibrillator for in-hospital use, designed by IDEO London for Artema, 1998. Photo courtesy IDEO.
How can a high school education prepare me for studies in biomedical
engineering?
Biomedical engineers require education and training in several sci-
ences, as well as in mathematics, engineering design, communication,
teamwork and problem-solving. To best prepare for a college program in
biomedical engineering, one should take a well-rounded course of study
in high school. The minimum such study should include a year each of
biology, chemistry and physics. Advanced courses in any of these sci-
ences are a plus. High school algebra, geometry, advanced algebra,
trigonometry and pre-calculus are a must. A course in calculus is also
typical of students entering biomedical engineering programs. A com-
puter programming course gives students a definite advantage in their col-
lege program. One might also consider a drafting or mechanical drawing
course as an elective.
The humanities and social
sciences are also important to
the biomedical engineer. High
school preparation should
include four years of English
and composition, a speech
course, several years of history
and social studies and even
study of a foreign language.
As biomedical engineers work
to improve healthcare world-
wide, the ability to communi-
cate in another language is a
valuable skill.
Rehabilitation engineers work to improve the quality
of life for people with a range of capabilities. Photo
courtesy Faustina Hwang.
What types of university
courses will prepare me to
become a biomedical
engineer?
Design is crucial to
most biomedical engineer-
ing activities. To design,
biomedical engineers
must have a solid founda-
tion in biology, chemistry,
physics, mathematics,
engineering, and the
humanities. Although the
biomedical engineering
curriculum varies from
university to university,
most programs require
courses in biology and
physiology, biochemistry, inorganic and organic chemistry, general
physics, electronic circuits and instrumentation design, statics and
dynamics, signals and systems, biomaterials, thermodynamics and trans-
port phenomenon, and engineering design. Students also take a number
of advanced science and engineering courses related to their specialty in
biomedical engineering. Typical specialties include bioelectronics, bio-
mechanics, biomaterials, physiologic systems, biological signal process-
ing, rehabilitation engineering, telemedicine, virtual reality, robotic aided
surgery, and clinical engineering. Newer specialties include cellular and
tissue engineering, neural engineering, biocomputing and bioinformatics.
Many engineering and science courses incorporate laboratory experience
to provide students with hands-on, real-world applications.
In addition to science and engineering courses, the biomedical engi-
neering student must take courses in English, technical writing, ethics,
and humanities (such as history, political science, philosophy, sociology,
anthropology, psychology, and literature). Some students continue stud-
ies of a foreign language in hopes of securing internships or permanent
engineering positions in a foreign country. Business courses are also pop-
Engineers and mathematical modelers combine their skills to
study the flow of air through the lungs. This research helps
people to better understand and treat diseases of the lung.
Image courtesy Merryn Tawhai, Bioengineering Institute,
Auckland, New Zealand.
ular for students interested in engineering management.
Many universities actively encourage six month overseas exchange
programs where a component of the biomedical engineering curriculum
is taught by a university in another country.
A biomedical engineer adjusts a monitor in Managua, Nicaragua. Photo courtesy Engineering
World Health.
What kind of practical experience can I expect to gain while training to
be a biomedical engineer?
Many undergraduate training programs in biomedical engineering
offer students an opportunity to gain real-world experience prior to grad-
uation. Summer internships with medical device and pharmaceutical
companies are popular, as are summer
research experiences at academic institu-
tions and government agencies, including
the National Institutes of Health (NIH)
and regulatory approval bodies such as the
FDA (Food and Drug Administration) in
the USA. Some universities offer formal
cooperative training programs in biomed-
ical engineering whereby the student
spends several semesters working at a bio-
medical company or hospital, earning aca-
demic credit as well as a salary. Such real-world experiences allow a stu-
dent to explore career options and better define his or her role in the bio-
medical engineering community.
What are some of the key areas of biomedical engineering?
Bioinformatics involves developing and using computer tools to collect
and analyze data related to medicine and biology. Work in bioinformat-
ics could involve using sophisticated techniques to manage and search
databases of gene sequences that contain many millions of entries.
BioMEMS Microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) are the integration
of mechanical elements, sensors, actuators, and electronics on a silicon
chip. BioMEMS are the development and application of MEMS in med-
icine and biology. Examples of BioMEMS work include the development
of microrobots that may one day perform surgery inside the body, and the
manufacture of tiny devices that could be implanted inside the body to
deliver drugs on the body’s demand.
Biomaterials are substances that are engineered for use in devices or
implants that must interact with living tissue. Examples of advances in
this field include the development of coatings that fight infection common
in artificial joint implants, materials that can aid in controlled drug deliv-
ery, and “scaffolds” that support tissue and organ reconstruction.
New devices with the latest tech-
nology can make a dramatic differ-
ence in people's lives.
Biomechanics is mechanics applied to biology. This includes the study
of motion, material deformation, and fluid flow. For example, studies of
the fluid dynamics involved in blood circulation have contributed to the
development of artificial hearts, while an understanding of joint mechan-
ics has contributed to the design of prosthetic limbs.
Biosignal Processing involves extracting useful information from bio-
logical signals for diagnostics and therapeutics purposes. This could
mean studying cardiac signals to determine whether or not a patient will
be susceptible to sudden cardiac death, developing speech recognition
systems that can cope with background noise, or detecting features of
brain signals that can be used to control a computer.
Researchers in biomaterials work to develop substances that are better suited to interact
with living tissue. Photo courtesy Faustina Hwang.
Biotechnology is a set of powerful tools that employ living organisms (or
parts of organisms) to make or modify products, improve plants or ani-
mals, or develop microorganisms for specific uses. Some of the earliest
efforts in biotechnology involved traditional animal and plant breeding
techniques, and the use of yeast in making bread, beer, wine and cheese.
Modern biotechnology involves the industrial use of recombinant DNA,
cell fusion, novel bioprocessing techniques, which can all be used to help
correct genetic defects in humans. It also involves bioremediation-
degradation of hazardous contaminants with the help of living organisms.
Clinical Engineering Clinical engineers support and advance patient
care by applying engineering and managerial skills to healthcare technol-
ogy. Clinical engineers can be based in hospitals, where responsibilities
can include managing the hospital’s medical equipment systems, ensur-
ing that all medical equipment is safe and effective, and working with
physicians to adapt instrumentation to meet the specific needs of the
physician and the hospital. In industry, clinical engineers can work in
medical product development, from product design to sales and support,
to ensure that new products meet the demands of medical practice.
Young child using a prosthetic arm. Photo courtesy the Institute of Biomedical
Engineering, University of New Brunswick, Canada.
Genomics is a new discipline that involves the mapping, sequencing, and
analyzing of genomes–the set of all the DNA in an organism. A full
understanding how genes function in normal and/or diseased states can
lead to improved detection, diagnosis, and treatment of disease.
Imaging and Image Processing X-rays, ultrasound, magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI), and computerized tomography (CT) are among the imag-
ing methods that are used to let us “see” inside the human body. Work in
this area includes developing low-cost image acquisition systems, image
processing algorithms, image/video compression algorithms and stan-
dards, and applying advances in multimedia computing systems in a bio-
medical context.
TransCyte artificial skin growth chamber, designed by IDEO London for Advanced Tissue
Sciences, 1997. Photo courtesy IDEO.
Information Tech-
nology in biomedicine
covers a diverse range
of applications and
technologies, including
the use of virtual reali-
ty in medical applica-
tions (e.g. diagnostic
procedures), the appli-
cation of wireless and
mobile technologies in
health care settings,
artificial intelligence to
aid diagnostics, and
addressing security
issues associated with
making health care
information available
on the world wide web.
Instrumentation, Sensors, and Measurement involves the hardware
and software design of devices and systems used to measure biological
signals. This ranges from developing sensors that can capture a biologi-
cal signal of interest, to applying methods of amplifying and filtering the
signal so that it can be further studied, to dealing with sources of inter-
ference that can corrupt a signal, to building a complete instrumentation
system such as an x-ray machine or a heart monitoring system.
Micro and Nanotechnology Microtechology involves development and use
of devices on the scale of a micrometer (one thousandth of a millimeter, or
about 1/50 of the diameter of a human hair), while nanotechnology involves
devices on the order of a nanometer (about 1/50 000 of the diameter of a
human hair, or ten times the diameter of a hydrogen atom). These fields
include the development of microscopic force sensors that can identify chang-
ing tissue properties as a way to help surgeons remove only unhealthy tissue,
and nanometer length cantilever beams that bend with cardiac protein levels in
ways that can help doctors in the early and rapid diagnosis of heart attacks.
Standing frame for children with severe disabilities, designed by
Triplicate Isis with Leckey. Photo courtesy James Leckey
Design, Ltd.
Neural Systems and Engineering This emerging interdisciplinary field
involves study of the brain and nervous system and encompasses areas
such as the replacement or restoration of lost sensory and motor abilities
(for example, retinal implants to partially restore sight or electrical stim-
ulation of paralyzed muscles to assist a person in standing), the study of
the complexities of neural systems in nature, the development of neuro-
robots (robot arms that are controlled by signals from the motor cortex in
the brain) and neuro-electronics (e.g. developing brain-implantable
micro-electronics with high computing power).
Physiological Systems Modeling Many recently improved medical
diagnostic techniques and therapeutic innovations have been a result of
physiological systems modeling. In this field, models of physiological
processes (e.g. the control of limb movements, the biochemistry of
metabolism) are developed to gain a better understanding of the function
of living organisms.
Proteomics A pro-
teome is the set of all
proteins produced by
a species, in the same
way the genome is the
entire set of genes.
Proteomics is the
study of proteomes –
the location, interac-
tions, structure, and
function of proteins.
Advances in pro-
teomics have included
the discovery of a new cellular process that explains how infections occur
in humans – an advance that is leading to new treatments for infectious
diseases. Additionally, these advances have led to discovery of a method
to detect protein patterns in the blood for early diagnosis of ovarian can-
cer. Work in proteomics can also involve the development of hardware
devices that provide accurate and rapid measurements of protein levels.
Mini-infusion pump transdermal medicine-delivery device,
designed by IDEO for Pharmetrix. Photo courtesy IDEO.
Radiology refers to the use of radioactive substances such as x-ray, mag-
netic fields as in magnetic resonance imaging, and ultrasound to create
images of the body, its organs and structures. These images can be used
in the diagnosis and treatment of disease, as well as to guide doctors in
image-guided surgery.
Rehabilitation Engineering is the application of science and technology
to improve the quality of life for people with disabilities. This can
include designing augmentative and alternative communication systems
for people who cannot communicate in traditional ways, making comput-
ers more accessible for people with disabilities, developing new materials
and designs for wheelchairs, and making prosthetic legs for runners in the
Paralympics.
Robotics in Surgery includes the use of robotic and image processing
systems to interactively assist a medical team both in planning and exe-
cuting a surgery. These new techniques can minimize the side effects of
surgery by providing smaller incisions, less trauma, and more precision,
while also decreasing costs.
Telemedicine, sometimes called “telehealth” or “e-health,” involves the
transfer of electronic medical data from one location to another for the
evaluation, diagnosis, and treatment of patients in remote locations. This
usually involves the use of “connected” medical devices, advanced
telecommunications technology, video-conferencing systems, and net-
worked computing. Telemedicine can also refer to the use of these tech-
nologies in health-related distance learning.
Where do I get more information about biomedical engineering
programs?
You can find more information about biomedical engineering degree
programs through your high school guidance counselors, at your local
library and through the internet. Most universities provide program
descriptions, curriculum requirements and admission requirements on
their web pages. In addition, most of these programs provide application
forms on line. You may also find information on biomedical engineering
programs at www.embs.org or www.bmenet.org. There is also worth-
while information available through the National Institute of Biomedical
Imaging and Bioengineering and its website (www.nibib.nih.gov). The
IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Magazine and journals such
as the IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering can also be very use-
ful, as well as books such as the Introduction to Biomedical Engineering,
Medical Instrumentation: Application and Design, and the Biomedical
Engineering Handbook series. Also, there are educator resources available
from the Educator’s Toolbox on the main page of the IEEE Engineering in
Medicine and Biology Society website at www.embs.org.
The field of biomedical engineering now enjoys the services of many
organizations collaborating to improve the lives of people around the
world. These societies include the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and
Biology (IEEE-EMBS), the Biomedical Engineering Society (BMES),
the European Alliance for Medical and Biological Engineering and
Science (EAMBES), and
the world umbrella organi-
zation for all biomedical
engineering societies – the
International Federation
for Medical and Biological
Engineering (IFMBE).
Wherever you are living,
you should be able to find
a biomedical engineering
organization to help you
reach your goals. A bioengineering student with her tiny patient. Photo
courtesy Engineering World Health.
EMBS would like to thank the following, dedicated individuals
for their assistance in creating this booklet
Faustina Hwang
Barbara Oakley
Kris Ropella
And those who supported our efforts by granting permission for
use of the included photography
The Acrobot Company, Ltd.
Peter Hunter
Bioengineering Institute, Auckland, NZ
Faustina Hwang
IDEO
Merryn Tawhai
Bioengineering Institute, Auckland, NZ
Engineering World Health
Institute of Biomedical Engineering
University of New Brunswick, Canada
James Leckey
Design, Ltd.
The Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society of the IEEE advances the
application of engineering sciences and technology to medicine and biology, pro-
motes the profession, and provides global leadership for the benefit of its mem-
bers and humanity by disseminating knowledge, setting standards, fostering pro-
fessional development, and recognizing excellence.
The field of interest of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society
is the application of the concepts and methods of the physical and engineering
sciences in biology and medicine. This covers a very broad spectrum ranging
from formalized mathematical theory through experimental science and techno-
logical development to practical clinical applications. It includes support of sci-
entific, technological and educational activities.
PUBLICATIONS
Engineering in Medicine and Biology Magazine
IEEE Security &amp; Privacy Magazine
Transactions on Biomedical Engineering
Transactions on Information Technology In Biomedicine
Transactions on Neural Systems and Rehabilitation Engineering
Transactions on Medical Imaging
Transactions on NanoBioscience
Transactions on Computational Biology and Bioinformatics
ELECTRONIC PRODUCTS
IEEE Biomedical Engineering Library
EMBS Electronic Resource
CONFERENCES
Annual International Conference of the IEEE Engineering in Medicine and
Biology Society
IEEE EMBS Special Topic Conference on Information Technology in Biomedicine
IEEE EMBS Special Topic Conference on Microtechnologies in Medicine and Biology
IEEE EMBS Special Topic Conference on Cellular, Molecular and Tissue Engineering
IEEE EMBS Special Topic Conference on Neural Engineering
International Symposium on Biomedical Imaging
International Conference on Biomedical Robotics and Biomechatronics
SUMMER SCHOOLS
International Summer School on Biomedical Imaging
International Summer School on Biomedical Signal Processing
International Summer School on Biocomplexity
International Summer School on Medical Devices and Biosensors
International Summer School on Applications of Information &amp; Communication
Technology in Biomedicine
www.embs.org
®
Engineering in Medicine &amp; Biology
EMBS Executive Office
445 Hoes Lane
Piscataway, NJ 08854 USA
Tel: +1 732 981 2433
Fax: +1 732 465 6435
E-mail: emb-exec@ieee.org
www.embs.org
www.embstudents.org
</field>
	