>

	
		<field name="slideshow_id">36626829</field>
		<field name="slide_text">CURRICULUM VITAE
Sooraj. S. Shettigar Email ID: sooraj.s2@gmail.com
S/o Shekar.shettigar Mobile: +91-9742350173
“Sri Durga Ganesh”
Vivekananda Nagar,
Athrady,
Udupi-576107
Objective
Intend to build a career with leading corporate of hi-tech environment with committed and
dedicated people and to share, contribute and upgrade my knowledge for the development of
organization and self.
Educational qualification
Class/Course Name of Institute Board/University
Year of
Passing
Marks%
MS
( Embedded
Systems)
Manipal Centre for
Information Science
Manipal University,
Manipal
2013 7.73/10
(GPA)
BE
(Electronics And
Communication
Engineering)
Canara Engineering
Collage-Bantwal
V.T.U Belgaum 2011 57.56
P.U.C
Govt .P.U College
Udupi
Karnataka Board 2007 73.5
SSLC
Parkala High School
Parkala
K.S.E.E.B 2005 78.56
 Have completed internship of 9 months successfully (i.e., from Sept 22nd 2012 to July 17th
2013) at Manipal Dot Net Pvt Ltd, Manipal.
INTERNSHIP EXPERIENCE
PROJECTS:
Title: Automation tool for DVR setup
Role: Developer
Description: Using python Scripting language and shell script and C program, for UI had used
wxpython in Linux environment.
1. Software installation tool for fresh DVR :
Description: This tool downloads required software and its dependency file from ftp and
installs it on fresh DVR and also written license file in C program to generate camera license port
required for user as per his requirement and also takes care about error handling.
Environment: Python, shell script and C and GUI using wxpython.
2. Tool to update license port:
Description: This tool update the camera port for the DVR which are presently in the fields
and also it can be used to change host name while booting the system.
Environment: Python, license file using C and GUI using wxpython.
3. Tool to create debian file and SVN operation:
Description: This tool mainly completed with the help of QA team. Tool used to connect to
the server and do SVN checkout along with update, revert, update to particular SVN version, build
the system and check log file from server. It's used to create debian file, initially it checks for
system type and then create debian file and finally send that debian file into DVR machine using IP
address and gets install in it.
Environment: Python, shell script and GUI using wxpython.
• Have also worked as QA member from Sept 22 2012 in Manipal dot net Pvt Ltd, which includes
Software testing, GUI testing, bug reporting and verifying.
Technical Skills
Operating System : Windows, Ubuntu, Red hat.
Languages : C, C++, RTOS.
Scripting languages : Basic Shell Scripting, Perl, python.
User-Interface : wxpython.
Tools used : Vxworks, Tornado, Source insight, Microsoft Visual C++ 6.0.
Areas of Field Interest
Real Time Operating Systems, Software testing, User Interface development, Embedded
system design, Python, C and C++.
Extra Curricular Activities
 Organized various Sports, Cultural and Technical Activities
 Regular Blood Donor
 Participated in Technical Quizzes
 Member of Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE) - Students Chapter
Strengths
 Good Analytical And Planning Skills
 Self Motivated And Determined
 Positive Attitude and Quick Self learning.
Hobbies
Gardening, Solving Sudoku Puzzles, Listening to Music, volleyball, cricket.
Personal Profile
Father’s Name :Shekar Shettigar
Gender : Male
Date of Birth : 22-03-1990
Nationality : Indian
Marital Status :Single
Language Known :English, Hindi.
Permanent Address : “Sri Durga Ganesh”
Vivekananda Nagar,
Athrady, Udupi-576107
I hereby declare that all the above information is true and correct to the best of my knowledge.
Date:
Place: Sooraj.S.Shettigar
</field>
	