>

	
		<field name="slideshow_id">36626821</field>
		<field name="slide_text">23 Elmsett Road, Walton-le-Dale, PRESTON, Lancashire, PR5 4JW.
Tel: (Evening) 01772 330636; (Mobile) 07768 548167.
E:mail: dianne.hunt66@gmail.com
Find me on LinkedIn at : uk.linkedin.com/pub/dianne-hunt/81/82/168
PERSONAL PROFILE
I am an experienced and successful Prince 2 accredited Senior Change Manager with
an excellent track record of delivering complex projects and large-scale transformation
across cross-functional areas and multiple teams, and a reputation amongst my senior
stakeholders, peers, and team for strong delivery and demonstrating role-model
behaviours.
Committed, thorough and professional, I work very well under pressure. I have
excellent stakeholder management, change management, project management,
business analysis, organisational, presentation, people management and interpersonal
skills. A good team player, and a persuasive communicator able to relate confidently
at all levels, I am particularly skilled at taking complex and nebulous ideas and
creating detailed, practical, manageable and agreed requirements and plans from
these, then implementing them in a way that gets myriad stakeholders fully on board.
SPECIALITIES
∗ Internal and external customer, client and senior stakeholder management
∗ Large-scale complex business transformation
∗ Change Management
∗ Project Management through the project lifecycle
∗ Programme/portfolio management
∗ Change consultancy with stakeholders
∗ Business process improvement
∗ Managing and developing people
Experience includes: Contact Centres; retail (home shopping); E-commerce; retail
banking; operating processes within a regularity environment; customer service; sales
operations; software solutions implementation; outsourcing/client services; self-service
/IVR; software solution implementation.
KEY SKILLS
∗ Influencing Stakeholder decision making around Change
∗ Conceptualisation and idea generation for Change projects
∗ Business requirements capture, management, and translation into appropriate
solutions
∗ Business analysis tools and techniques
∗ Business case development
∗ Solution definition and design
∗ Benefit definition, realisation and tracking
∗ Implementation planning and support
∗ Project activity and project resource planning
∗ Communications management
∗ Governance, and risk and issue control and management
CAREER OVERVIEW
Jul ’12 to date
Serco (Shop Direct Contract)
Senior Change Manager, Transformation projects
Jan ’03 to Jul ‘12
Shop Direct Group
Project Manager, Group Change.
Process Development Manager, Group Operations
Improvement Team
E-commerce Development Manager, Home Shopping
Oct ’00 to Jan ‘03
J D Williams and Co.,
Manchester
Project Manager, Client Projects (Zendor.com)
Customer Service Projects Manager, J D Williams
Apr ‘86 to Oct ’00
Halifax PLC
Project Leader
Senior Analyst
Analyst
Regional Trainer
Customer Services Assistant
Jul ‘84 to Apr ’86
Various
Clerical roles
CAREER HISTORY
SERCO GLOBAL SERVICES for the Shop Direct Contract, home based
July 2012 to date Senior Change Manager for Transformation projects
Synopsis of Role: Design and transform through a programme of change, a number
of Service Improvement projects for Shop Direct Operations as part of the contractual
commitment between Serco and Shop Direct.
Example Achievements:
∗ Designed and implemented the transformation of the Compliance function’s
operational structure, processes and procedures including shared processes with
the Client.
∗ Identified the need for and implemented a systemic solution for the control and
measurement of quality and FCA compliance monitoring, across six operational
sites off- and on-shore, through the entire project lifecycle including business case
sign off, solution implementation, and changing processes and how people worked.
∗ Identified the need for, sourced a software solution for and implemented a learning
management system to meet regulatory requirements for training and competency
across six operational sites both off- and on-shore, covering the full project lifecycle.
∗ Implemented a redesign of regulatory sales scripts with associated training, control
and integration through controlled change
∗ Managed a small team of Project Managers also responsible for transformation
projects, supporting the Head of Change in ensuring all governance and client
control were in place.
∗ Worked with the Client to conclude the contractual closure of the Transformation
Programme, mobilising and completing a sensitive and controversial area of activity
with glowing feedback from the Client about the added value brought by my
contribution. .
SHOP DIRECT GROUP, Liverpool
2005 to 2012
2003 to 2005
Project Manager
Process Development Manager
E-commerce Development Manager
Example Achievements:
∗ Managed five Projects within the programme to TUPE transfer Shop Direct
Contact Centre operations into Serco.
∗ Implemented, managed and developed a Business Design &amp; Analysis team,
amalgamating three disparate functions to become a centre of excellence for
Contact Centre business and process analysis with 33 Business Analysts at
different levels across five sites.
∗ Project Managed through to vendor shortlist stage the strategic partnership for
the Speech Enabled IVR solution.
∗ Project managed the concept and design of a number of strategic initiatives to
early investment decision stage, taking senior stakeholder wish-lists and turning
them into practical decisions. This included several initiatives for driving enquiry
reduction and improving customer self service and a customer service trial that
ran with live customers across two contact centre sites.
∗ Managed the “business readiness” workstream of the system delivery of a major
Buying and Merchandising initiative, for contact centre operations, warehousing
operations, and the book and web Production department.
∗ Implemented advanced website search functionality and significant changes to
the product data architecture on Littlewoods-online and LXDirect.com, to improve
the accuracy of customer search results. In the first week of implementation to
Littlewoods-online this increased sales by 4%.
∗ Optimised for search engine traffic the three major Littlewoods’ brand’s websites,
resulting in the sites appearing near the top of the search word listings in Google,
where previously they were unlisted.
∗ Implemented website changes to ensure compliance with new e-commerce
legislation.
J D WILLIAMS &amp; Co. Manchester
2000 to 2003 Project Manager (client facing)
Project Manager CRM
Example Achievements:
∗ Managed the design, development and implementation of a fully integrated
transactional website for a high street retailer, across web design, web
development, IT, CRM and warehouse teams.
∗ For a high street retailer’s first venture into mail order, managed the implementation
of all customer order and enquiry handling processes across a number of business
teams,
HALIFAX BANK, various locations
1998 to 2000
1995 to 1998
1994 to 1995
1991 to 1994
1986 to 1991
Project Leader
Senior Analyst Business Processes,
Analyst, Business Processes
Regional Training Assistant
Customer Services Assistant.
Example Achievements:
∗ Managed the national implementation of revised mortgage offer processes through
a team of remote Project Managers.
∗ Set up, delivered and managed regular workshops with 27 Call Centre Managers,
creating strategic direction and focusing on the resolution of operational issues.
∗ Supported a major strategic redesign of the retail network operations.
EDUCATION / QUALIFICATIONS/OTHER SPECIALISED SKILLS
2011 Prince 2 Practitioner
1999 Diploma in Management Studies (Open University)
1998 Certificate in Management Studies (Open University)
1984 Two A level passes, Two A/O Passes
1982 Seven O level passes, One CSE Grade 1 Pass
∗ Managing Projects (Duhig Berry)
∗ Project Management (Kepner Tregoe)
∗ Microsoft Project
∗ Effective Manager Programme
∗ Internal Consultancy (Techniques for Change)
∗ Leadership Academy (SDG Leadership)
∗ DICE (SDG Leadership)
LEISURE INTERESTS
I am never happier than when walking in a pine forest on a mountainside in the sun. In
addition to hill walking I enjoy jogging, reading, travel, gardening (particularly
landscaping). More recently my husband and I have purchased and prepared as
second property for rental and aim to do this again.
</field>
	