>

	
		<field name="slideshow_id">36626795</field>
		<field name="slide_text">Milton D. Murphy
8616 Old CCC Camp Rd.
Ocean Springs, MS 39564
228-493-2679
MiltonMurphy91@yahoo.com
SUMMARY
Over 15 years experience with all facets of business management and operations, underscored by 15+
years of simultaneous Freelance Paralegal experience, as well as that of a mechanically inclined office
equipment technician and certified electricians assistant. Strong computer, communication and
organizational skills. Innovative, cutting-edge, analytical approach to problem solving that gets it right
the first time. Positive attitude with strong interpersonal and motivational management skills. An innate
ability to train and manage subordinates, as well as a dedicated team player. A results-driven achiever
who takes the initiative to do that which is necessary to complete projects on time, under budget and
with optimal quality and precision. A loyal company advocate with a healthy understanding of the
bottom line and the need to meet or exceed the clients/customers expectations.
SIGNIFICANT EXPERIENCE
2009 - Present
Merchandising Account Specialist
Spar Merchandising Group, Inc.
Tarrytown, NY 10591
* Erect Gondolas and end-cap displays, as well as performing POG resets and item cut-ins.
* Process the receipt and return of product, along with the routine display of back-stock on shelves.
* Assemble display model items, install signage, shelf talkers, tags and other POP / POS as needed.
* Conduct inventory and product replenishment, as well as promoting new items to store mgt.
* Conduct in-store audits to insure compliance with marketing objectives.
* Operate as qusi manufactures representative by periodically training entry level merchandisers.
2010 - Present
Merchandising * Audits * Resets
Various Companies
* Excellent reputation for conducting merchandising objectives on an ad hoc basis for various
companies, including but not limited to: Retail Integrity, Set and Service Resources, Advantage Sales and
Marketing, Crossmark, Convergence, Cast Force, Dot-2-Dot, Retail Detail Merch., Apollo Retail Services,
National Merchandising, Hallmark, Atlantic Coast Merchandising, Finta, Pat Henry Group and more …
* These merchandising objectives typically take place in retail chains such as Walmart, Sams Club,
Kmart, Target, Sears, Khol's, Bed Bath and Beyond, CVS, Rite Aid, HealthMart, Office Depot, Winn-Dixie,
Home Depot, Family Dollar, Fred's, Dollar General, Advance Auto Parts, Clark Oil and Kangaroo Stores
located along the Mississippi Gulf Coast in the cities of Gulfport, Biloxi, Diberville, Pascagoula, Ocean
Springs, Waveland, Pass Christian, Long Beach, Gautier, Moss Point and Escatapwa.
1990 - 2005
Owner Operator (CEO)
Coastal Toner &amp; Service, Inc.
D’Iberville , MS 39532
* Founded business and authored the companys corporate charter, by-laws and policies, as well as
customer service contracts, product warranties, etc.
* Responsible for overall operations and administration of copier / fax / printer Parts, Supplies &amp; Service
Company, (e.g. public relations; sales; marketing; purchasing and inventory; logistics; research and
development; human resources; quality assurance; customer service; finance and accounting;
collections; taxes, etc.).
* Designed, engineered and implemented facilities for re-manufacturing toner, developer and
photoconductor units for document imaging equipment which became highly lucrative product line
comprising 35% of annual sales.
* Secured key service contracts with three major coastal military installations.
* Assimilated vendor raw material, part and supply database for efficient, cost effective procurement
and inventory control, so as to simultaneously cut cost, increase profits and maintain competitive
wholesale / retail pricing.
* Designed, optimized and promoted corporate internet e-commerce website, increasing revenues by
40% within one year.
* As Lead Technician, developed in-house training videos and hands-on technician training techniques to
reduce employee training time / cost and maintain cutting edge customer service.
* As IT Professional, supervised all software installation, integration and analysis.
* Conducted internal audit review and analysis of all financial records, (e.g. logistics cost; payroll;
accounts receivable; accounts payable; finance; taxes, etc.).
* Initiated and successfully pursued to conclusion all breached contract litigation in behalf of company.
1985 - 1990
General Manager
National Cost Savers Corp.
Ocean Springs, MS 39564
* Assisted with initial business plan and start-up, thereafter managing overall day-to-day operations of
the members-only Wholesale Buying Service.
* Designed and implemented an efficient tracking system for locating and establishing vendor accounts
from which to procure over 3 million wholesale products for our member customers.
* Supervised and motivated 20 Sales Professionals, 10 Telemarketers and 3 Purchasing Agents.
* Authored the companys corporate charter, by-laws, policies, contracts, etc.
as well as aggressively litigating all breached contract complaints in behalf of the company, reducing the
uncollected accounts receivable balance by 93%.
1989 - 2010
Freelance Paralegal / Legal Assistant
Emphasis in Criminal Defense; Civil Rights; Divorce and Collections.
DIberville, MS 39532
* Conduct in-depth legal research. Draft extensive legal briefs, complaints, motions, contracts, etc.
* Analyze and prepare evidence for presentation at trial, as well as analyzing trial transcripts for
preparation of appellant review.
OTHER EXPERIENCE
Warehouse / Inventory Clerk
Memorial Hospital
Gulfport, MS 39502
* Stock and record inventory of all medical supplies utilized by the hospital on a day-to-day basis.
Merchandiser
Winn Dixie Food Stores
DIberville, MS 39532
* Stock general merchandise on shelves for retail sale.
Factory Assembly Line Die-Setter/Quality Assurance
Arvin Automotive (Muffler Division)
Monticello, AR 71646
* Conducted change-over of muffler factory assembly-line fabrication dies so as to run mass production
of each different type of automotive exhaust system ordered by Ford Motor Co.
* Conducted test runs on each piece of machinery to insure production of parts necessary to meet
manufacturers quality control standards.
Carpentry and Auto Mechanics
* Through volunteer work and practical experience, I can easily re-build a home or automobile engine.
COMPUTER SOFTWARE PROFICIENCY
MS Office 2003/2007
MS FrontPage 2003
Windows XP Pro
Windows Vista
Windows 7
QuickBooks Pro 2009
Adobe Photoshop
Adobe Acrobat PDF / Reader
Other Specialty Programs
EDUCATION
Bachelor of Science Degree - Political Science.
William Carry Collage, Gulfport, MS 39501
Associates Degree - Paralegal Studies with a Pre-Law option.
Jeff Davis Jr. Collage, Gulfport, MS 30501
NCCER Certified Electricians Assistant
(National Center for Construction Education and Research)
Training-U Industrial Electricians Assistant Trade School
(Blueprint reading; Conduit installation; Switch wiring, etc.)
OSHA Safety Certified [10 hour]
American Red Cross
CPR Certified (Adult, Child and Infant)
SALARY
Negotiable, based upon my qualifications, experience and the needs of my employer.
PERSONAL
By nature, a resume is only a brief summary of my qualifications. Thus, I ask that you do not assess my
credentials merely by the resume alone and I invite you to view the photo and connections of my web
based portfolio at: https://www.linkedin.com/pub/milton-murphy/47/747/2b2
</field>
	