>

	
		<field name="slideshow_id">36627776</field>
		<field name="slide_text">Social Media Tips
Social media can be a highly effective business tool. It is great for
marketing your business, building brand recognition and connecting with
your customers.
When engaging with the community via social media (or any other media)
ensure that you are representing yourself appropriately, as your business.
Using several different business names or blurring the lines between you
and Kinetico can confuse customers or cause your brand to come across as
unprofessional and untrustworthy. Also, make sure you are using social
media platforms appropriately, utilizing the tools each has set up for
businesses rather than tools intended for individuals or other entities; this
will allow your business to be represented properly to customers and will
require a lot less work and frustration on your part!
Remember, social media is part of your overall marketing strategy, so it is
important to keep clear goals and methods in mind as you post and share
with your market.
At the moment, Facebook is the most popular social media site in the
world. Facebook’s offerings continue to grow and change, but its
popularity in all demographics makes it a great tool for businesses.
On Facebook, your business can create a Page to represent itself,
connect with customers and share things like photos, events, and offers
with its followers and the Facebook users in your area.
Your business page is a place for you to show customers and users in
your area how your business fits into the community. Professionalism,
courtesy, and positivity are especially important in social media
contexts like Facebook since most interactions are public.
Facebook
Facebook
Getting started with Facebook:
1.  Create a Page. If you have just one location, pick “Local Business or
Place.” If you have multiple locations, pick “Company, Organization
or Institution.”
2.  Fill out your information on the next few pages. When creating your
vanity URL (facebook.com/…) use your business name if possible. If
your business name is taken already or is extremely long, try to
come up with a shortened version that will be easy to remember. Do
not use “Kinetico” in your username.
3.  Start posting and Liking! Check out the tips on the next page for
ideas and guidelines about your content.
Some tips for using Facebook effectively:
•  Take advantage of Facebook’s wide array of features, such as Events,
Milestones, Offers and Hashtags—these will enable your posts and
activity to show up more often on fans’ News Feeds.
•  Keep posts relevant, varied and timely. Posting too often about one
topic can come across as spammy and disingenuous. Aim to have a
Timeline that looks professional, credible and active. See the examples.
•  Use Facebook Ads. There are several types of ads that can help your
page reach more people, build Likes, or promote important events. See
our Facebook Ad examples for some tips and inspiration.
•  Make sure to Like charities you donate to or organizations you belong
to, such as BBB or Chambers of Commerce. These pages will help you
stay connected to your community, provide you with content to share,
and may reciprocate your Like.
Facebook
Nobody wants to read about softeners all
day. People will Unlike or Unsubscribe from
your page if your posts are consistently
boring, aggressive, or spammy.
Pull content from blogs, share others’
Facebook posts and talk about things your
local market will be interested in. They
don’t always have to be about water!
BAD GOOD
Examples:
Facebook
These ads target a broad audience (your whole territory) to generate
interest in the brand and generate Likes.
Facebook
These ads promote a specific event or promotion, with a narrower
geographic area, but a broader demographic.
And this one targets friends of your Facebook fans (people who have
Liked your page).
Facebook
Google Plus
Like Facebook, Google Plus allows users to create a business page, and
create posts which are shared with members of a user’s circles. Like
Facebook’s, Google+’s business pages differ from a personal page,
offering extended features useful for business (such as location and
contact information).
Although Google Plus may not be the most popular social media
platform, it can be very valuable to your business. Google has given
Google Plus pages (as well as other Google products like Places and
Local) special placement in search results, showing search users your
location and other information from your Google+ page. Creating a
Google Plus page and posting periodically (similar content to
Facebook posts) will increase traffic from search and allow mobile
users to find you more easily.
Getting started with Google+:
1.  Create a personal Google+ profile for yourself.
You can include as much or as little info as you
want.
2.  This part might be tricky. If your business is
already on Google Maps—you can just search
on maps.google.com to find out—then you
may already have a Google+ business page!
You just need to gain control of it. Click on
your business’s listing in Maps, and then click
“more info” next to your business name.
3.  On the business listing page, click “Manage
this page” at the bottom of the right-hand
column.
Google Plus
4.  Before you can edit the information on your listing
and access your Google+ page, you’ll need to verify
your authority to change the listing. Follow the
instructions to get your page verified.
5.  Once you’ve verified your listing and updated all
your listing information, you can create a Google+
page from your Google Places for Business
dashboard. This page will directly correspond to
your Google Places/Maps/Google+ Local listing,
and will be displayed whenever someone searches
for your business.
Google Plus
6.  Once you have created a Google+ Page, you can
access it whenever you are signed into Google+ by
clicking your photo in the top right corner, or from
your Google Places for Business dashboard.
7.  Now you can start posting, building your Circles,
and taking advantage of the benefits Google+
provides for Google search. Check out the tips on
the next page.
Note: If you don’t have a business listing on Maps, you
can create a Google+ page by following the steps in
this Google+ Help article.
Google Plus
Some tips for using Google+ effectively:
•  Upload photos of your storefront, showroom, vehicles and staff. Try
to take photos that give your Google+ viewers a feel for what they
can expect when they visit you.
•  If you are already using a Facebook page, posting the same things
on Google+ when you post them to Facebook is a good way to
keep both pages active without doing a lot of extra legwork. Check
out the Facebook Tips section for more information on posting.
•  Ask your customers to give you a good review on Google+.
•  Check out Offers and other Google+ features to see if they would be
right for your business.
Google Plus
YouTube
YouTube is the second most popular social media platform, and very
different from Facebook. YouTube allows users—individuals, businesses,
non-profits, governments—to post videos to their channels, which can
then be viewed, shared and commented on by any of the site’s users.
YouTube is also very popular as a search tool, even though it only
returns YouTube videos. Having an active channel allows your brand to
be served to users searching or sharing, and helps establish you as a
knowledgeable member of the community.
Videos posted to your channel must be original content or content you
have permission to use (like the resources on Kinetico’s extranet).
Customer testimonials or a basic brand/company video can be the
easiest videos to shoot and upload and provide useful, original content
for viewers.
Some tips for using YouTube more effectively:
•  If you can’t post original content, you could create playlists of existing
YouTube content, which allow you to show your viewers other channels’
videos without infringing on their copyrights.
•  Since YouTube uses a powerful search engine and “related content”
features, optimize your titles, video descriptions, annotations and other
features so your content is found and navigated more easily.
•  Ensure that you have proper rights to use everything in videos you post.
This includes music, photos, footage and participants’ permission.
•  Approach comments with professionalism and positivity.
•  Use the YouTube app for Facebook to show your video content to a
broader audience.
YouTube
Twitter
Twitter is a fairly simple social media platform, where users tweet
(publish) short, typically text-based posts that are shared with their
followers and available to anyone who views the user’s Twitter page.
Posts often include links to external resources, such as blogs, YouTube
videos or news services.
A good rule of thumb to determine whether your business belongs on
Twitter: if you are questioning whether you should sign up for Twitter
or not, don’t. Currently, the learning curve and time commitment to
make Twitter a viable marketing medium are fairly steep, so when it
comes to social media, your time may be better spent elsewhere.
LinkedIn
LinkedIn allows job-seeking professionals to post skills, résumés,
experience and other work-related information for employers and other
professionals to view.
Making sure that all your business information is correct and up-to-date
on LinkedIn can be an excellent way to find new employees, but it is
not a viable tool for communication and interaction with your market.
Ensure that goals for LinkedIn are realistic and that social media
marketing efforts are focused appropriately in other platforms.
</field>
	