>

	
		<field name="slideshow_id">36626787</field>
		<field name="slide_text">Shanghai, China
21st
&amp;22nd
July, 2014
MARTIN LINKING Chemical Management Best Practices
Seminar overview:
There are about more than 7 millions of chemicals applied in the world’s different industries, each year, more
than 1000 new chemicals will be introduced and produced. Manage the risk from chemical in its different stage of
research, purchasing, manufacturing, usage, transportation, storage and disposal and ensure its legal
compliance is the responsibility of EHS professional and management team.
Seminar delivery:
This 2 days seminar is designed to teach the skills and knowledge needed to successfully implement a
comprehensive plant chemical management as well as understanding the current status on chemical
management requirement.
How you will benefit from the seminar?
• Make improvement on plant chemical management and enhance your plant chemical management
practices
• Thorough knowledge on chemical risk management in your plant
• Understanding the legal compliance requirement as well as updates on new requirement
How you will learn from the seminar?
• Learn the chemicals’ category, type and property
• Understanding the legal requirement on chemical compliance
• Understand the chemical hazards and its health impact, chemical exposure risk assessment, risk control
and control solutions
• Understand the chemical management practice/management framework during different stage of
chemical management
• Familiar with the chemical related emergency response process, skills, equipment
• Understanding the new requirement of GHS as well as REACH information
Martin Linking reserves the right to change the venue of, or speakers at the seminar should circumstances require. © Martin Linking
Shanghai, China
21st
&amp;22nd
July, 2014
Seminar Outline:
Day One:
• Chemical basics
 Overview on chemical basics and category
 Legal requirement on different chemicals as well as its category
 How to identify plant chemical hazards and its risks
• Chemical hazard communication
 What is chemical health hazards and its health effects
 Chemical exposure path to human body and risk of different exposure path
• Plant chemical management framework and practices
 Purchase
 Transportation
 Receiving
 Storage, container requirement
 Distribution
 Usage
 Cleaning and disposal
• Chemical visualization management
 Chemical labelling on bottle, barrel, container, warehouse, workplace
 Pipeline visual management, colour coding, labelling
 MSDS introduction, SDS(GHS)
• Chemical management best practices sharing
• Chemical emergency response (ER)
 ER organization and team
 Emergency response procedure, process
 Evacuation process and drills
 Incident commanding
 Gas release emergency response
 Liquid chemical leakage emergency response
 Drills and table practices
 Medical emergency response and rescue
Martin Linking reserves the right to change the venue of, or speakers at the seminar should circumstances require. © Martin Linking
Shanghai, China
21st
&amp;22nd
July, 2014
Martin Linking reserves the right to change the venue of, or speakers at the seminar should circumstances require. © Martin Linking
Day Two:
• Chemical exposure risk assessment
 Qualitative exposure assessment, exposure risk matrix and risk priority
 Quantitative exposure assessment, exposure monitoring
 Exposure compliance and compliance assessment
 Chemical exposure risk controls
 Control process
 Engineering
 PPE, respirator, masks selection, CPC selection, glove selection
 Chemical exposed employees’ medical surveillance requirement and
introduction
• Introduction on chemical new updates
 Global harmonization system/GHS introduction
 GHS labelling and classification requirement
 REACH requirement and introduction
 ROHS overview and introduction
• Workshops
About Martin Linking
Martin Linking Business Consulting plans to produce more than 80 trainings and conferences and works with senior
executives from the majority of the world's top 1000 companies to improve their business strategy and match their
learning and training needs in one year. And we continue to grow.
We also invite the leading business practitioners, industry decision makers and innovators to share insights, best
business practice, and new technology at our forums. We are dedicated to give attendees cutting edge information
they can use immediately. We constantly research and listen to all industry sectors to ensure that the business
intelligence we provide is timely and cutting-edge.
Seminar Schedule Day One &amp; Two
0830 Registration and coffee
0900 Seminar commences
1045 Morning refreshments
1115 Seminar re-commences
1200 Luncheon
1300 Seminar commences
1500 Afternoon refreshments
1530 Seminar re-commences
1730 Seminar concludes
In-House Training Solutions
If you have a number of delegates with similar training
needs, then you may wish to consider having an In-House
Training solution delivered locally on-site. Course can be
tailored to specific requirements.
Please contact Whitney Shen on +86 28 8532 7678 or
email whitney.shen@martinlinking.net to discuss
further possibilities.
Shanghai, China
21st
&amp;22nd
July, 2014
Wilson CAO:
Mr. CAO has more than 10 years professional EHS working experience, with expertise in EHS professional
training, compliance audit, developing EHS management system, IH monitoring &amp; assessment, IAQ
assessment, EHS Due Diligence, office ergonomics etc… Mr. CAO worked in the chemical industries since
graduate, Mr. CAO also has a strong safety professional education background from Jiangsu University.
He is P.R.C certified safety engineer.
Mr. Cao has lead and conducted many of EHS projects, including:
• Design tailor-made EHS training courses, courses development and training delivery
• “EHS culture building up and promotion” consultant program development and coaching
• IH hazards exposure monitoring &amp; assessment
• Construction site EHS management
• New construction project EHS design review
• Construction site EHS audit
• EHS improvement project management
• EHS compliance audits
• New Project EHS Due Diligence
• New project EHS permit management
• Office ergonomics program development
Key Qualifications
Relevant Fields of Competence
• Comprehensive EHS training courses development and lead trainer;
• Overall EHS operation and risk management;
• EHS audits, hazard recognition &amp; risk assessment;
• Plant EHS culture building up and promotion;
• Incident investigation, classification and incident management;
• Ergonomics training and consultant project;
• Construction site EHS audit and other consultant program;
• Emergency response
• EHS performance enhancement and performance matrix designs;
• Industrial hygiene(IH) &amp; occupational health(OH) program compliance management;
• Chemical management.
• Office EHS &amp; IAQ assessment
Industries for this seminar：
 Chemical
 Oil
 Metal Manufacturers
 Auto manufacturers
 Machinery manufacturers
 Pharmaceutical
 IT manufacturers
 Builders
 General manufacturing enterprises
Who Should Attend?
• EHS managers/supervisors/team leaders
• Plant managers, facility managers or engineers, equipment maintenance managers
• EHS/engineering engineers
Martin Linking reserves the right to change the venue of, or speakers at the seminar should circumstances require. © Martin Linking
中国上海
2014 年 7 月 21-22 日
马汀令可 化学品管理最佳实践
研讨会概览：
大约有超过7百万种的化学品应用在世界的不同行业，每年都有超过1000种的新化学品将被引入和生产。管理化学
品在其研发、采购、制造、使用、运输、贮存和处理的不同阶段带来的风险，确保法律合规是EHS专业人员和管
理团队的责任。
研讨会目的：
这次为期两天的研讨会课程是设计为传授需要成功实施全面工厂化学品管理的技能和知识以及理解化学品管理需求
的现状。
您将从本次研讨会得到什么益处？
• 改善工厂化学品管理，增强您的工厂化学品管理实践水平
• 全面了解贵工厂的化学品风险管理
• 理解法律合规要求以及最新的要求
您将从本次研讨会学到什么？
• 学习化学品的类别、类型和属性
• 理解化学品合规的法律要求
• 了解化学品危害和其对健康的影响、化学品暴露风险评估、风险控制和控制解决方案
• 了解在化学品管理不同阶段的管理实践/管理框架
• 熟悉化学品相关的应急反应过程、技术和设备
• 了解GHS新的要求以及REACH信息
马汀令可保留在必要的情况下更换研讨会地点和咨询师的权利。 © 马汀令可
中国上海
2014 年 7 月 21-22 日
研讨会大纲：
第一天：
• 化学品基础
 化学品基础和分类概述
 不同化学品法规要求以及其类别
 如何识别工厂化学品危害及其风险
• 化学品危害沟通
 什么是化学品健康危害和其对健康的影响
 人体接触化学品的路径和不同接触路径的风险
• 工厂化学品管理框架和实践
 采购
 运输
 接收
 存储、容器要求
 分销
 使用
 清洁和处置
• 化学品可视化管理
 瓶、桶、容器、仓库、工作场所的化学标签
 管道可视化管理，色彩编码，标签
 MSDS介绍，SDS(GHS)
• 化学品管理最佳实践分享
• 化学品应急响应（ER）
 应急响应组织和团队
 应急响应程序、过程
 疏散过程和演习
 事故指挥
 气体泄漏应急响应
 化学液体泄漏应急响应
 演习和沙盘模拟实践
 医疗应急响应和救援
马汀令可保留在必要的情况下更换研讨会地点和咨询师的权利。 © 马汀令可
中国上海
2014 年 7 月 21-22 日
马汀令可保留在必要的情况下更换研讨会地点和咨询师的权利。 © 马汀令可
第二天：
• 化学品暴露风险评估
 定性暴露评估、暴露风险矩阵和风险优先级
 定量暴露评估、暴露监测
 暴露合规和合规评价
 化学品暴露风险控制
 控制过程
 工程
 PPE、呼吸器、面具选择、CPC选择、手套选择
 化学品暴露员工的医疗监视需求和介绍
• 介绍化学品的最新 动态
 全球协调系统（ GHS）介绍
 GHS标签和分类要求
 REACH要求和介绍
 ROHS概述和介绍
• 研讨
关于马汀令可
马汀令可商务咨询计划每年组织超过80场的培训和会议，与全球1000强公司的高层经理一起提高他们的商务战略，满足
他们的学习和培训需求。并且我们在不断成长。
我们邀请领先企业的管理者、决策者和创新者在我们的活动中分享他们的思想观念、最佳商业实践和新技术。我们致力
于为我们的客户提供即刻可用的前沿信息。我们不断地研究和聆听所有行业的声音来保证我们提供商业信息的及时性和
前沿性。
研讨会时间表 - 第一天和第二天
0830 签到及早茶
0900 研讨会开始
1045 上午休息
1115 研讨会继续
1200 午餐
1300 研讨会开始
1500 下午休息
1530 研讨会继续
1730 研讨会结束
内训方案
如果贵公司有许多人有类似的培训需要，那么您不妨考虑
内部培训的解决方案。培训将在贵公司现场举行。并且培
训可以根据您具体的要求来进行。
请联系Whitney Shen来讨论合作的可能：
电话：+86 28 8532 7678
电邮：whitney.shen@martinlinking.net
中国上海
2014 年 7 月 21-22 日
关于您的咨询师：
Wilson CAO:
Mr. CAO 拥有十年以上的 EHS 专业工作经验，专注于 EHS 专业培训，合规性稽核，EHS 管理系统开发，
工业卫生监测及评估，EHS 尽职调查，办公室人体工学等。Mr. CAO 一直在化工领域从事 EHS 的管理与实
践工作，他拥有很强的安全教育背景，毕业于江苏大学安全工程专业,他是一名国家注册安全工程师。
Mr. CAO 曾经领导或参与过各种 EHS 管理项目，包括:
• 领导开发并执教 EHS 定制课程
• “创立及推广 EHS 文化“项目的开发及指导
• 工业卫生危害曝露监测及评估
• 建设项目现场 EHS 管理
• 建设项目 EHS 设计审查
• 建设项目 EHS 稽核
• EHS 改进项目管理
• EHS 合规性稽核
• 新项目 EHS 尽职调查
• 新项目 EHS 相关许可证管理
• 办公室人体工学项目开发
资质概况
专业能力领域：
• 综合性 EHS 培训课程的开发及执教
• 全面的 EHS 运用及风险管控
• EHS 稽核，危险源识别及风险评估
• 公司 EHS 文化的建立及推广
• 事故调查，分级及管理
• 人体工学培训及相关咨询项目
• 新建设项目 EHS 稽核及其他相关咨询项目
• 紧急应变项目
• EHS 绩效强化及绩效矩阵设计
• 工业卫生及职业卫生项目合规性管理
• 化学品 EHS 管理
• 办公室 EHS 及室内空气质量评估
适合此次研讨会的行业：
 化学
 油类（石油，油脂等）
 金属制造
 汽车制造
 机械制造
 制药
 IT 制造
 建筑
 一般制造企业
谁应参加？
• EHS经理/主管/团队领导人
• 工厂经理、设施经理或工程师、设备维护经理
• EHS/工程工程师
马汀令可保留在必要的情况下更换研讨会地点和咨询师的权利。 © 马汀令可
Chemical Management Best Practices
SH20140721-Sales Contract-Please Complete in Capital Letters and Black Ink
Sales Contract
Please complete this form immediately and fax back to
Whitney Shen
Fax No: +86 28 8532 6768
Fee Per Delegate
Two Days Seminar Fee RMB 5995 per person
All the registered delegates are entitled for a set of documentation
free of charge.
DOCUMENTATION RMB 1000
If you are unable to attend the seminar but wish to receive copies
of the seminar documentation, please complete the sales contract,
tick this box and return the contract with payment details.
Full Payment is required within 5 working days
Authorization
(Signatory must be authorized to sign on behalf of contracting
organization.)
This booking is invalid without a signature.
Register Now
Contact: Whitney Shen
Tel: +86 28 8532 7678
Fax:+86 28 8532 6768
Email: whitney.shen@martinlinking.net
Business Opportunities
An exhibition space is available at the conference.
Sponsorship opportunities covering lunch, evening
receptions and advertising in documentation packs
are also available. Please contact Ms. Whitney Shen at
+86 28 8532 7678.
Terms &amp; Conditions:
1. Fees are inclusive of program materials and refreshments.
2. Payment Terms - Following completion and return of the registration
form, full payment is required within five (5) working days upon the
issuance of invoice. Payment must be received prior to the conference/
training date. A receipt will be issued on payment. Due to limited
conference/training seats, we advise early registration to avoid
disappointment. We reserve the right to refuse admission if payment is
not received on time.
3. Client’s Cancellation/substitution - Provided the total fee has been paid,
client’s cancellation must be received in writing by MAIL or FAX four (4)
weeks prior to the event in order to obtain an 85% credit to attend for any
future Martin Linking Events. Under such circumstances, Martin Linking
will retain the other 15% service fee to cover expenses for prior cost that
has already been incurred upon the acceptance of registration.All
bookings carry a 50% cancellation liability immediately after a signed
sales contract has been received by Martin Linking.
4. If, for any unexpected circumstances or reasons that Martin Linking
decides to postpone this event, the client hereby indemnifies and holds
Martin Linking harmless from any cost incurred in by the client. The
event fee will not be refunded, but can be credited to future Martin
Linking’ s events. Martin Linking reserves the right to change the
content without notice.
5. Copyright etc. - All Intellectual Property rights in all materials produced
or distributed BY Martin Linking in connection with this event is expressly
reserved and any unauthorized duplication,publication or distribution is
strictly prohibited.
6. Important note: In the event that Martin Linking permanently cancels
the event for any reason whatsoever, (Including, but not limited to any
force majeure occurrence) and provided that the event is not postponed to
a later date nor is merged with another event, the client shall receive a
refund for the amount that the Client has paid to such permanently
cancelled event.
Payment Method
Our payment terms are 5 working days on receipt of
invoice and full payments can be made by bank
transfer.
4402928009022523952
Martin Linking Business Consulting Company Limited
</field>
	