>

	
		<field name="slideshow_id">36626763</field>
		<field name="slide_text">Software
That Fits
AccountMate is a real-time,
customizable financial and
business management software
designed to address the needs
of small to medium-sized
businesses. It takes advantage
of the speed of client/server
technology and the latest
productivity-enhancing tools in
Microsoft’s suite of products to
help you better manage your
business.
This leading-edge application
combines the full functionality of
our award-winning AccountMate
system with the power of
Microsoft’s SQL Server. It offers
AccountMate users enhanced
investment protection for the long
haul with superior scalability, up-
time performance, stronger data
security and easier integration
with other software applications. A
SQL database also optimizes the
application’s performance so
users can experience uniform
high-speed performance – no
more system slowdown at the
end of your reporting period.
AccountMate 9 for SQL or Express
Module Summary
AccountMate for Express is designed for small businesses that desire the stability and
speed of SQL Server without incurring the expense of SQL Server licenses and will have
up to five concurrent users. AccountMate for SQL is designed to accommodate
hundreds of concurrent users. There is no built-in limit to the size of your company
databases thereby eliminating the need to archive records. Both AccountMate products
offer an identical user-interface, the same ease of use, number of modules and are
source code modifiable. This flexibility allows AccountMate products to be customized to
fit your business processes and adjust as your business grows.
A company can grow from AccountMate for Express to AccountMate for SQL and still
maintain their investment in staff training and software customization. Our seamless data
migration makes this a quick and easy upgrade.
Both AccountMate for SQL and AccountMate for Express include these
features:
• Powerful desktop tools with user-definable shortcuts and instant access to your
favorite Microsoft applications
• System-wide tracking of data changes that provides comprehensive audit trail and
helps strengthen the company’s internal controls
• User-definable password policy and fraud protection features recommended by
banks and accountants for Sarbanes-Oxley compliance
• Drill-down analysis permits instantaneous viewing of account and transaction details
• Multi-segmented chart of accounts supports complex cost center structure and
flexible analysis of financial statements
• Up-to-the-minute bank balances and instant view of unreconciled transactions help
manage your cash flow
• Ability to attach supporting documents to transaction and master records
• A suite of inventory features designed to meet your sophisticated inventory-
management needs
• Multiple warehouses with unlimited bin locations facilitate any complex warehouse
setup
• Multi-currency features allow transactions in any currency
• Multi-lingual capabilities support global operations
• Over 20 modules to fulfill your accounting, payroll, inventory, manufacturing, RMA,
CRM and other business requirements.
Accounts Payable
With the Accounts Payable module, you can avoid duplicate invoices and late payments,
require that invoices recorded in the system be supported by purchase orders and take
advantage of early-payment discounts. AccountMate simplifies the payment process by
allowing you to post credit card payments or issue checks directly after an invoice is
recorded. You can even print checks and generate an ACH file in one sitting. It tracks
payments to various types of 1099 vendors and prints the applicable 1099-MISC forms.
When integrated with AccountMate's Purchase Order module, you get a complete
purchasing and invoicing system that will enhance your ability to manage your vendor
base and cash flow.
Accounts Receivable
The Accounts Receivable module offers a complete billing,
receivable, customer and inventory management system that
helps you provide customers with accurate and prompt service.
The Sales Order, Return Merchandise Authorization, Pricing
Control, Upsell Management, Customer Inventory Manager and
Inventory Specification modules integrate with Accounts
Receivable to create a complete order entry, customer returns,
billing and receivables system that delivers superior customer and
inventory management.
Bank Reconciliation
Keeping an accurate tab on your cash flow is an essential part of
managing your business and AccountMate’s Bank Reconciliation
module makes it a breeze. With this module, you can record
miscellaneous disbursements, receipts and bank transfers that are
not logged in other AccountMate modules. You can indicate which
transactions have cleared the bank and reconcile your book
entries with the bank statements. You can set up and update bank
accounts and specify the currency in which transactions will be
recorded for each one. You can quickly view your current bank
account balance, the last reconciled bank statement balance and
the total amount of unreconciled bank transactions. This keeps
you well informed of your company’s real-time cash position.
Business Alerts
Licensed Users can use the many predefined alerts to send
emails to specific individuals or groups that need to be aware of a
situation that has just occurred or a reminder to take some action.
These email alerts can be administered to send an alert to one
specific person or to a specified group of people. No longer do
people have to read reports and manually send off an email.
Proper alerts can be scheduled by an Administrator who names
the appropriate addressee and when a condition is met, emails
are sent automatically.
There are currently 32 predefined alerts that come standard in the
Alert Manager for AccountMate module.
Business Analysis
Gain real-time insight and discover trends in your business
performance by using AccountMate Business Analysis. Anyone
who uses spreadsheets has simple, yet powerful capabilities to
gather and analyze business information. You can easily build or
create custom reports, which allow you to accelerate decision-
making with in-depth financial reporting. AccountMate Business
Analysis also gives you the ability to create a single Microsoft
Excel template for multiple report generations. Pre-build drag and
drop Excel functions, reports and business intelligence provide
commonly-accessed configurations to help you save time, money
and start delivering results immediately.
Business Intelligence
AccountMate’s Business Intelligence module is a powerful query,
analysis and reporting tool that enables you to analyze ALL your
business data from any angle you wish, including non-
AccountMate application data. Benefits include faster reporting
cycles, higher quality information, sophisticated data analysis
capabilities, information on customer buying or paying behavior
and improved executive productivity.
Data can be presented through reports, charts, graphs and
dashboards.
Consolidated Ledger
The Consolidated Ledger module provides the ability to quickly
combine several companies’ account balances and budgets into a
unified ledger to present consolidated financial statements and
other reports. It also supports consolidation of companies with
different reporting currencies making it ideal for multi-national
organizations that have foreign operations. Creating a
consolidated ledger is simple. Just set up the company in
AccountMate and specify whether it is a parent or a subsidiary.
Assign to each subsidiary a parent company that will generate
consolidated reports. Then, map each subsidiary company's chart
of accounts and fiscal periods to its parent and you’ll be able to
consolidate the subsidiary’s account balances and budgets in no
time.
Contact Manager
AccountMate’s Contact Manager module is a full-featured contact
management system that helps you manage interactions with your
customers more effectively and efficiently. It works with the latest
Microsoft Office products to provide a complete, automated
system that offers an all-in-one solution for managing multiple
customer contacts. It is fully integrated with the accounting
modules to avoid duplicate data entry and provide data
consistency throughout the system.
Custom Field Manager
The Custom Field Manager module is an engine that lets you add
any number of data fields to existing AccountMate screens to
meet your specific requirements. Custom fields can be added to
master records or transaction header tables. These custom fields
can be character, date, integer, logical or numeric in nature.
Custom fields of any type can be assigned a default value while
character-type custom fields can have a lookup which can be used
to validate data and locate records. The ability to add custom
fields to both standard AccountMate tables and non-AccountMate
tables makes it possible to create the customizations your
company needs without purchasing a source code license and
modifying the source code. Custom fields are also seamlessly
upgraded in future product releases.
Customer Inventory Manager
The Customer Inventory Manager module lets you integrate your
business more closely with your customers helping you achieve
higher levels of customer satisfaction. Most customers find it
easier to use their own inventory part numbers, descriptions and
units-of-measurement when placing orders and when receiving
and being billed for products and services. Using this module, you
can easily cross-reference item numbers, descriptions and units-
of-measurement to those of your customers. It even allows you to
set customer contract prices. This module integrates seamlessly
with AccountMate's Accounts Receivable and Sales Order
modules.
Customer Relationship Manager
AccountMate’s Customer Relationship Manager (CRM) module
manages and reports on every recorded interaction with a
prospect, client, supplier, contact or branch office. It can schedule
the next appropriate interaction, enabling exceptional account
management and customer service. At a glance, you can view all
past interactions with each contact providing the ability to track
activities, issues and interactions with all your clients. It can even
manage your meetings, phone calls and emails. Contact
information is easily searchable and manageable so you can
access required records quickly in order to generate reports and
perform mail merges. It works with programs like Microsoft Office
so data can be merged and utilized in other programs to create
custom mailings, mass emails, reports and other business
documents. It can also be used for sales force and business
process automation.
General Ledger
AccountMate's General Ledger module gives you maximum
control over the management of all your accounting transactions.
It is equipped with the necessary tools and reports to help you
comply with both US Generally Accepted Accounting Principles
(US GAAP) and International Financial Reporting Standards
(IFRS). Whether setting up and maintaining a chart of accounts,
generating financial statements and reports or creating journal
entries and budgets, AccountMate General Ledger keeps you in
control of your financial data.
General Ledger also comes standard with fund accounting
capabilities. Enabling its fund accounting features addresses not
only the specific reporting needs of the not-for-profit organization
but also provides the tools necessary for a detailed accounting to
those who require special handling of the funds they contribute.
Inventory Control
You have the power of a complete inventory management system
with AccountMate's Inventory Control module. This module
provides the ability to define each inventory item's cost method,
units-of-measurement and warehouse and bin locations. You can
set each item’s safety stock, lead time, reorder level and reorder
quantity. Inventory counts can be performed at any time and as
often as needed without interrupting your shipping and receiving
processes.
You can assign serial numbers to each unit of an inventory item,
define multiple substitutes for an item and record transfers of units
from one warehouse to another. Stock items can be issued for
internal use. You can also view a list of vendors that supply a
specific item or a list of items sourced from a particular vendor.
Inventory Control integrates with and enhances the functionalities
of the Accounts Receivable, Sales Order, Purchase Order and
Manufacturing modules. It also integrates with the Pricing Control,
Upsell Management, Inventory Specification, Kitting, Lot Control
and Customer Inventory Manager modules.
Inventory Specification
The Inventory Specification module offers quick, easy and
accurate management of complex inventory that requires tracking
of a variety of attributes. It allows you to categorize your inventory
items according to such things as size, color, weight and texture;
then, tracks the items’ quantities, costs and prices by the assigned
categories. It can suggest a similar item when the desired
specification is not available thus helping you keep the sale. The
Inventory Specification module integrates with the Inventory
Control, Sales Order, Accounts Receivable, Purchase Order,
Pricing Control and Upsell Management modules.
Kitting
AccountMate’s Kitting module expands the inherent capabilities of
your Inventory Control module to allow you to create and manage
inventory items that are packaged and sold together as a single
unit.
The Kitting module is designed to be used by manufacturers and
distributors whose goods are often resold in many different
configurations. Users can decide whether assembled units of a kit
item must be kept in stock or whether they can be packaged on
the fly as orders are received. Kit items can be sold using a pre-
defined formula or customized per order. This module tracks items
when they are sold as part of a kit and provides the necessary
reports to help you determine whether you have sufficient stock to
meet existing kit orders thereby allowing you to make sound and
up to the minute inventory management decisions. The Kitting
module integrates with AccountMate’s Accounts Receivable and
Sales Order modules.
Lot Control
AccountMate’s Lot Control module adds the power of a complete
lot control system to your Inventory Control. It gives you the ability
to track units of lot controlled items from purchase or production
through inventory and sale and allows you to keep a record of
each lot controlled unit's expiration date. The Lot Control module
integrates with AccountMate’s Accounts Receivable, Sales Order
and Purchase Order modules.
Manufacturing
With AccountMate's Manufacturing module, you can easily create
work orders and explode jobs into virtually unlimited levels of raw
material, labor, machine and subassembly components. You can
record production lead time and monitor the inventory levels of
items that you manufacture so you can effectively plan future
production. You can break down large jobs into multiple start
dates and steps. You can post work-in-process automatically or
manually. It lets you print work orders, routing slips, production
slips and a wide variety of useful reports. With it, you can monitor
jobs, resource usage and backorders from work order creation
through the posting of finished jobs and the cancellation of any
unused allocated resources.
Payroll
AccountMate's Payroll module lets you set up records for salaried,
hourly, time card or piece work employees and independent
contractors. You can pay them using a variety of pay periods that
suit your company policy and each employee’s pay and
employment status. Deductions can be withheld from the
employee’s payroll and matched by employers. Additional
payments, such as bonuses and fringe benefits, can be recorded
for each employee. The module accrues leave hours, calculates
the worker’s compensation liability, allows you to print on blank or
preprinted check stock and supports the assignment of multiple
states and local tax codes to each employee. It also allows you to
process employee and federal tax deposit payments electronically.
With an annual tax subscription, you can download the latest
payroll tax updates that will be used to calculate payroll taxes and
print payroll tax returns, W-2 and 1099 forms.
Pricing Control
If you have to quickly set up or update a complex pricing structure,
AccountMate's Pricing Control module has the tools you need. Its
features include price maintenance in one menu location;
unlimited multi-level pricing set by order quantity or price code for
each item specification and unit-of-measurement; the ability to set
minimum prices, multi-currency pricing and pricing based on the
most recent sales order or invoice price. This module is ideal for
making quick and easy changes to inventory prices with minimal
time spent on data entry. The Pricing Control module integrates
with AccountMate’s Sales Order, Accounts Receivable, Inventory
Control and Inventory Specification modules.
Purchase Order
The Purchase Order module gives you more control over a full
range of purchasing activities. You can record vendor lead times
and plan purchases based on lead time, safety stock, reorder
point and reorder quantity information. You have the option to
accrue liability for purchases at the time the goods are received
and reverse the accrual when you record the invoice in the
Accounts Payable module. You can set the system to either track
the accrued liability in summary per purchase order receipt or in
detail per line item. You can also accrue landed costs and allocate
them to purchased items. When creating purchase orders, you
have a plethora of information about each inventory item at your
fingertip which helps you select the right item every time. You get
to define which items are for resale and which ones are solely for
in-house use. And when your Purchase Order system is integrated
with AccountMate’s Accounts Payable module, you can require
that invoices be supported by purchase orders before they can be
recorded in the system.
Return Merchandise Authorization
The Return Merchandise Authorization (RMA) module allows you
to record and monitor the progress of your customers’ sales return
transactions in AccountMate. With it, you can create RMA orders,
receive returned items and ship the repaired, replacement or
substitute items. AccountMate automatically updates the item’s
on-hand, booked or defective quantity as well as the customer’s
balance. It calculates any gains or losses that result from replacing
or substituting the customer’s returned items. It also generates
credit invoices in the Accounts Receivable module as needed.
You can create unlimited return codes to represent the different
return processes your organization allows.
This module maintains a comprehensive list of customer and
inventory records that are shared with AccountMate's Sales Order,
Accounts Receivable and Inventory Control modules. It also
comes with functions like Inventory Warranty Maintenance and
Defective Inventory Adjustment for a thorough and accurate
management of your RMA orders.
Return to Vendor Authorization
AccountMate’s Return to Vendor Authorization (RTV) module
offers a comprehensive system that you can use to track returns
of purchased items to your vendors. With it, you can create RTV
orders, return purchased items and receive the corresponding
substitute or replacement items. During this process, the system
updates your accrued liability for received goods along with the
on-hand inventory quantity. If applicable, you can assign a serial
number or lot number to the substitute or replacement items you
receive. AccountMate computes any gains or losses that result
from having the purchased items be replaced or substituted by the
vendor. This module provides multiple return actions from which
you can create unlimited return codes to represent all possible
vendor return scenarios.
Sales Order
In an increasingly competitive marketplace, customers demand
rapid response to their orders. Your ability to process these orders
in a timely and effectual manner is essential to winning and
retaining your customers' business.
AccountMate's Sales Order module delivers the power of a
complete order entry, customer and inventory management
system so that you can always provide your customers with
prompt and accurate service. When integrated with AccountMate's
Accounts Receivable module, you get a complete billing-and-
receivable system that will further enhance your ability to manage
your customer base and inventory.
System Manager
The System Manager module is the control center for the entire
AccountMate system. It controls the system environment and
setup, desktop shortcuts to AccountMate functions and external
applications, on-line help, multi-level password security, audit trail,
report engine, printer and report setup, module and company
selection, system date and all pop-up menus. It also initializes the
system, provides easy access to Microsoft Office tools and comes
with multi-lingual capability. AccountMate System Manager
delivers the utmost efficiency, productivity and security to any
business.
Upsell Management
AccountMate’s Upsell Management module provides tools you
can use to help boost your sales. It allows you to maintain a list of
accessory or upsell items that can be offered to customers who
buy specific inventory items. You can view this list and select the
upsell items when processing customer orders. You can also track
upsell item sales for commission purposes. You can even create a
script or provide special instructions that your sales team can use
as a guide when selling the upsell items. The Upsell Management
module integrates with AccountMate’s Sales Order, Accounts
Receivable, Inventory Control and Inventory Specification modules
to enhance your sales process.
AccountMate Software Corporation
1445 Technology Lane | Suite A5 | Petaluma, California 94954 | USA
800-877-8896 | 707-774-7500 | www.accountmate.com
Software That Fits
© 2014 AccountMate Software Corporation. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part without permission is prohibited. The capabilities, system requirements
and/or compatibility described herein are subject to change without notice. Contact AccountMate or an Authorized AccountMate Solution Provider for current information.
AM7768_4153
</field>
	